Glossary of Key Terms You Will Learn in this Lesson


DSL - Domain Specific Language. A metaprogramming language for specific tasks, such as building database queries or stream processing applications.
Dataclass (Python) - A special type of Class in which instances are meant to represent data, but not contain mutating functions
Changelog - An append-only log of changes made to a particular component. In the case of Faust and other stream processors, this tracks all changes to a given processor.
Processor (Faust) - Functions that take a value and return a value. Can be added in a pre-defined list of callbacks to stream declarations.
Operations (Faust) - Actions that can be applied to an incoming stream to create an intermediate stream containing some modification, such as a group-by or filter


Introduction to Faust

Faust is built using modern Python features such as asyncio. Faust is embeddable as a library in existing applications. It can also be configured to be deployed as a stand-alone application in your infrastructure. Faust implements storage, time windowing, streams, tables, and many of the aggregate functions discussed in Lesson 5. It is important to note that Faust requires Python 3.6+ and does not support Avro or Schema Registry natively at this time.



Python Dataclasses


A dataclass is a special type of Class in which instances are meant to represent data, but not contain mutating functions.
Python dataclass objects can be marked as frozen, which makes them immutable
Nothing in Python is truly immutable, but this attribute gets you about as close as you can get
dataclass objects require type annotations on fields and will enforce those constraints on creation. This helps ensure you’re always working with data in the expected format, reducing and preventing errors.
Can be paired with the asdict function to quickly transform dataclasses into dictionaries
New in Python 3.7
Default to using dataclass to work with data coming into and out of your Faust applications unless you have a good reason not to