
Faust Deserialization

Topic deserialization in Faust is a simple and painless process. Similar to how you might specify a schema for key and value to confluent_kafka, with Faust you can provide key and value types. These value types may be primitives such as int or str, or complex types represented as objects.


Faust Deserialization - Key Points
All data model classes must inherit from the faust.Record class if you wish to use them with a Faust topic.
It is a good idea to specify the serializer type on your so that Faust will deserialize data in this format by default.
It is a good practice to set validation=True on your data models. When set to true, Faust will enforce that the data being deserialized from Kafka matches the expected type.
E.g., if we expect a str for a field, but receive an int, Faust will raise an error.

https://faust.readthedocs.io/en/latest/userguide/models.html#codec-registry



Storage in Faust


Faust keeps track of all state changes in stream processing applications in a topic dedicated to each stream.
Doing so allows Faust to scale up from one node to thousands of processing nodes without skipping a beat.

Storing State In Memory

When a Faust application starts and reads state from the changelog topic, or as it processes data during execution, it needs to store the current state of the application somewhere.



The first, and default, option, is to simply store the state in memory – this means that an up-to-date copy of the state of a table is kept in application memory on every node.


While this is fast and simple to reason about, it has significant disadvantages:

Every time the application restarts it has to completely rebuild state from the Kafka changelog topic.

It might take our application minutes or even hours to recover and begin processing again.

What happens if the state of the table is too large to fit in memory?

Because of these significant disadvantages, it is not recommended to use in-memory storage for anything but testing and local development where data sets are limited, and recovery times aren't critical.

Storing State in RocksDB

The second option for storing application state locally is to use RocksDB.

RocksDB is a highly performant datastore that runs side-by-side with a stream processing application.
As changes are made in your streaming table, the state is stored in RocksDB in addition to being sent to Kafka.
It is always recommended to use RocksDB in production.




How does Faust manage that state?

Faust does all of this for you automatically using aiokafka.

Faust creates a Kafka consumer within the context of the underlying library which is responsible for subscribing and consuming events from any requested topics.

The aiokafka consumer is responsible for managing the offsets, and will periodically commit its offsets back to Kafka.

The consumer can then forward the message onto the subscribed agent for the topic, where it is processed.

When the processing of an event completes the message is automatically acknowledged.


https://faust.readthedocs.io/en/latest/userguide/streams.html#id1
https://faust.readthedocs.io/en/latest/userguide/streams.html#id3
Faust applications may choose to forward processed messages on to another stream by using the topic.send(<data>) function at the end of the processing loop.