
Consumer Offsets - Key Points

Kafka keeps track of what data a consumer has seen with offsets
Kafka stores offsets in a private internal topic
Most client libraries automatically send offsets to Kafka for you on a periodic basis
You may opt to commit offsets yourself, but it is not recommended unless there is a specific use-case.
Offsets may be sent synchronously or asynchronously
Committed offsets determine where the consumer will start up
If you want the consumer to start from the first known message, [set auto.offset.reset to earliest]
This will only work the first time you start your consumer. On subsequent restarts it will pick up wherever it left off
If you always want your consumer to start from the earliest known message, you must manually assign your consumer to the start of the topic on boot



Consumer Groups - Key Points


All Kafka Consumers belong to a Consumer group
The group.id parameter is required and identifies the globally unique consumer group
Consumer groups consist of one or more consumers
Consumer groups increase throughput and processing speed by allowing many consumers of topic data. However, only one consumer in the consumer group receives any given message.
If your application needs to inspect every message in a topic, create a consumer group with a single member
Adding or removing consumers causes Kafka to rebalance
During a rebalance, a broker group coordinator identifies a consumer group leader
The consumer group leader reassigns partitions to the current consumer group members
During a rebalance, messages may not be processed or consumed


Metrics for Consumer Performance


The most important metric to understand for your Kafka Consumer is consumer lag.

Consumer lag is measured by taking the difference between the current consumer offset, and the offset of the newest message for that topic partition.
There will almost always be some consumer lag
Kafka CLI tools to measure consumer lag.
If you notice that the consumer lag number continues to grow over time, though, that is an indicator that your consumer cannot keep up. In that case, you typically will need additional consumer processes in order to keep up.



Another important metric to measure is the number of messages per second passing through your Kafka topic.

This number indicates the throughput of your topic
It can be useful in understanding if you’re meeting performance goals
It is typically calculated in conjunction with consumer lag
Kafka emits metrics for throughput via the Java Metrics Exporter, or JMX, so that you can hook this metric directly into your monitoring dashboards and alerting systems.


Producer Performance

When a producer sends messages to Kafka, there is always some inherent latency in that process. Ideally, that latency number is small and consistent.

High latency can indicate that your acks setting is too high and that too many ISRs nodes must confirm the message before returning.
It may also indicate that too many partitions or replicas have been assigned to this topic.
Another metric to keep your eyes on is the producer response rate. This metric is an indicator of how many messages are being delivered over time.

All of these metrics may be created by using producer delivery callbacks in the client library.
Note - The ack setting defines the number of acknowledgements required by Kafka brokers before a produced event can be considered to have been successfully published. In libraries such as librdkafka we can fine-tune this parameter, defining a specific number of brokers that must acknowledge our message. If a Kafka cluster consists of many nodes, that means that every message we produce must be acknowledged by every one of those brokers. In the simple examples, we've gone through so far this is no problem. But in a typical Kafka production environment, the Kafka Server will be handling thousands or even millions of messages per second. Even on a powerful server with significant networking capability, the time spent acknowledging messages quickly becomes a bottleneck because of the CPU cycles and network overhead required to engage with every produced message on every broker.


Broker Performance


The Kafka broker is the conduit through which data in a system flows.

First, disk usage should be monitored as Kafka retains data, sometimes indefinitely.

Network usage is a critical metric to measure.

Election frequency is another important metric


https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/monitoring-kafka-performance-metrics/
https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/kafka/monitoring.html
https://newrelic.com/blog/best-practices/new-relic-kafkapocalypse


